our first guest has been on a remarkable
american journey from the south side of
chicago to princeton and harvard
from the white house to the top of the
new york times bestseller list
and now she is talking to puppets on
netflix she's a mr hooper for another
generation
on her new show waffles and mochi please
welcome
michelle obama
how are you doing great
jimmy i love that introduction the new
mr hooper
i love that yeah mr hoop remember mr
hooper of the big
horse big bird called him mr looper
usually
that big bird how has lockdown been
going for you guys
has the family been together oh gosh yes
oh yeah we have been together it's it's
going well
you know we are of the mindset in this
uh
time that if we have our health we're
doing well so we are blessed
but no no we have been together
for a very long time how long was it fun
i would imagine when the kids come back
and they're back in the house yeah it
was fun for
a long time i mean we set up this
routine we
you know where everybody would go into
their spaces and they'd do their work
the kids would do their classes and you
know we'd be doing whatever and then
we'd come together for cocktail hour
you know get a glass of wine and do an
activity like we were into puzzles for a
while
i bought some oil paints we had painting
week
um i was i've taken up knitting
uh you know the girls were baking it was
all just
sugar and light and then we'd have
dinner and then we'd play a family game
i think that lasted for a month or so
and then you know the kids would come
down
later be a little more surly
a little less communicative you ran out
of funny stories
to sell that was you know and then
summer came
and that helped so we could eat outside
every now and then
now a year in you know it's we don't
even really get a hello
when people come to the table sometimes
it's like hey what's up
how's your day same same doctor's like
same
dead nothing happened to you
nothing happened and how about that is
dad because you've spoken
and he has spoken about the fact that
he's not exactly tidy around the house
has he shored up that area of behavior
is he being cleaner in the house
he's he's cleaner but it's not because
of him
it's because he has someone that does it
now but he likes to take credit for it
like see how mean i
am it's like it's not you you really
have nothing to do with it
i do the same thing
so yeah a lot it's very neat around our
house i got it except for the
except for the kids rooms and we just
don't go up there okay that's probably
the
you know giving up that floor the uh
president was on our show right when his
book came out
and in that first week his book outsold
your book but since then
i think you're like do you know how far
ahead of him you are as far as book
sales go
no jimmy of course i don't count
i know i'm way ahead
well since you don't know i will tell
you it's
3.3 million which is a lot of books to
15 plus million which is a lot more
you both have podcasts now are you
comparing downloads as well
no no not not really because it's like
my podcast came out in the summer and
his just came out
right it's kind of like we're tag
teaming you know
uh-huh i need something he does
something i do something
so he follows yeah he has a tag team
he has a partner in his tag team bruce
springsteen who
um he said on his podcast that
you suggested he spend more time
with bruce springsteen because bruce
seemed to be more
evolved than he is and
no don't i hear people laughing yeah
but let me just say this bruce spring
springsteen is one of my favorite people
not just because of his music but he's
one of the few men that i know
who has really done the work of
self-reflection
and he's willing to share right so
i mean he he really goes in and that's
what
renegade the podcast is all about it's
like how
rare is it jimmy for men
to tap into their feelings jimmy i'd
love to talk
to molly yeah she would want to talk to
you
who would want you to talk yeah it's
just the rare thing
for two men to talk about feelings and
fears
and growing up and bruce was always
since
i've known him he's been very
forthcoming so that's what makes the
podcast amazing
do you feel that it is rubbed off on
barack bruce
yeah yeah yes
he is becoming more tapped into his
feelings and ready to express them
it seems like it was a hundred years ago
but it was a couple of years ago
i interviewed you in tacoma washington
in front of a big group of people you're
on your book
tour and we had a great talk it was a
lot of fun and
everyone was very excited to see you and
i asked you a question that night
and i actually asked your husband's
question as well and he kicked it back
to you
i asked you that on the night that seal
team six
took out osama bin laden at your
husband's order
did you and your husband make love that
night to celebrate
you know i have to tell your your
audience that
for some very sick reason uh-huh you
were
very obsessed yes this portion
of that major historical event
yes in a way that no one else
no one in the history of all the
conversations i've had
anybody drilled down on this particular
point
like you give me kimmel
so i turn that back on you that's my
that's my version of self-reflection
that's what you want to know you're
still that little boy
in your bedroom under the cover with the
flashlight going i hope nobody sees me
actually it was a uh it was a propane
torch and that's why the house burned
down but yes
i'm still pleading the fifth you're
pleading the fifth all right
tomorrow is saint patrick's day you're
from chicago
where uh they really celebrate st
patrick's day and
turn an entire river green every year
and you guys
are also you've been honored by uh i
don't know where this is in ireland but
we have a photo of the barack obama
plaza which
appears to be a truck stop at which
there are statues of you and your
husband
that is real yes people that is not
that that's not photoshop that is a
money goal
have you been there to visit yes yes
in fact uh was it first term or second
term i'm
getting it confused but we went to
ireland and we visited moneygall which
is a
wonderful town and he has many many
cousins there
right and we had a night at the pub
where we drank some guinness
and laughed and joked it's his obviously
his grandmother's maternal grandmother's
side of the family
um from moneygall and since then some of
them have come to
they came to the white house to visit so
you know a lot of people think the o
in obama no i'm just kidding yeah
there's a little
little apostrophe after it right there's
an apostrophe
that no one knew about yeah no so that's
his ancestral home his money
goal when is the last time the two of
you got really drunk
uh let's see what's today
michelle obama's with us your show is
called waffles and mochi it's on netflix
we'll be right back with a
i think uh perhaps an insurmountable
challenge as michelle obama goes
one-on-one with my daughter jane we'll
be right back
what do we have here we have this
magnificent spread of
mushrooms wow look at this
this one looks just like an elephant
here that's because it's an elephant ear
mushroom
and they're really tasty too where did
you get all these amazing mushrooms
a mushroom farm in japan in japan you
went to japan
that's right you guys are so busy i
thought i was busy
we really learned that just because
something is different it doesn't mean
that you won't like it
that is waffles emoji the new beloved
children's characters
on netflix and uh michelle obama
executive producer of the show
your husband is executive producer of
the show as well did he do any work on
this show
no absolutely nothing nothing
that's a quality many executive
producers share
so by the way what a great idea for a
show because
it is very difficult to get some
children uh
to eat healthy and to try new things and
to try things from all around the world
you've got chefs on the show
you've got celebrities on you got lionel
richie even on the show encouraging the
kids to eat
how did lionel come to mind when doing a
show about
children and food you know i the
co-creators reached out to
uh a broad cross section and uh lionel
richie
helps to close out the season um kind of
in a surprise way that i won't give away
okay right if you can imagine
you know how would lionel richie show up
with waffles and mochi but it's
it's just uh amazing and of course uh
a lot of celebrity guests were excited
to join in because you look at the
script and you see this
you know the story line and there's
humor there's one of the co-creators
who's
uh jeremy connors who was a co-creator
of drunk drunk history
so he brings the funny
it's one of these shows that you want to
watch with your kids
but you also just want to watch it right
and
yeah that's the the beauty of something
like this and as a
as a parent of children you know you you
realize there's not a lot of shows that
you want to sit down
and watch with your kids and laugh along
uh
and and this is one of those have you
been in a situation as first lady or
other
in which you were asked to try something
food wise
that you really didn't want to eat but
you had to be nice and eat it to be
polite
that's like every foreign trip really
you know you do a lot of cutting up in
small pieces and a lot of scooting
around
you know right just politely scooting
and moving and then there are the
instances where
you get a sign from an agent to don't
eat
what's on your plate oh and that's oh oh
there's been times where it was like
don't touch that ma'am
and because they feel it is not safe
they they are in the kitchens watching
what happens
why they know what's going on and so
there are those instances
where you know you just sort of you just
sort of
talk and laugh and yeah right
wow so yeah you know so i know what it's
like not to want to eat something i can
relate to jane
well yes i'm glad you brought that up
because you know you have an impossible
task ahead of you
my daughter jane does not eat
but um well you gave it let's take a
look and let's see
how michelle obama stacks up against
jane kimmel age six is a setup
so i'd like to introduce you to my
daughter jane jane come on in
jane say hi to mrs obama
well hey there jane you look
lovely first of all let me just say
you look just like your mom oh what
how old are you at six and a half
six and a half ooh that half uh adds
another layer of chicken half is very
important do you like vegetables
no no i eat avocado which is a vegetable
one she does eat avocado
so jane why don't you like vegetables
cause i don't really like to try
new things i i know i was like that when
i was your age you know
i i you know what i like to eat and the
only thing i would eat for breakfast
every morning until i was 19 peanut
butter and jelly
what for breakfast yeah for breakfast
but here's what i learned if you try
something new
just try it that you open up your taste
buds
and then you'll like a whole bunch of
new things
so can i get you to try
just try a vegetable just just try it
no way no i
can't why can't you try a carrot i just
don't want to do you feel like you're
eating a snowman's nose
is that why you won't eat it i have an
idea
can you help me with something can you
help mrs obama with something
uh-oh what's that green beans
green dad no but i've got a game
jane can you help me teach your dad a
game that i learned
from two of my best friends their
waffles and mochi
waffles is a cross between a frozen
waffle and a yeti
and moshi's got a little bitty mouth and
mochi can't eat big things so mochi
taught me
this game called the small bite game dad
can you
can you try to cut those carrots up into
the smallest bites
the smallest we're losing her yeah
i told her she's tough let's bring billy
we hi buddy hi crazy what do we have
here
it's billy it's out and that's that
well this was an epic fail yeah yeah
this was a
this was a complete setup well you know
what you gave it a try
i did jane can you do me a favor can you
at least
watch waffles in mochi watch waffles and
mochi
it doesn't require eating anything you
don't have to eat you just have to watch
tv you know how you just got right
oh she's the best at watching tv for
sure well thanks for being a good sport
sweetie i'm still very proud of you
how about this will you eat that
what if we put the the string beans on
the pizza oh that's a great idea no oh
okay that's a bad idea thank you mrs
obama sorry
well you know what you gave it a really
good try and
yeah that was that was a tough one you
know she wasn't having it
maybe next time you are with us you can
get guillermo to eat some vegetables yes
yeah for sure it is he will eat yes all
right waffles in mochi this is the show
it's available on netflix now if you
want to help michelle obama
provide healthy meals to families in
need go to wafflesandmochi.org thank you
mrs obama
it is great to see you we will be back
with brittany howard
hi i'm jimmy kimmel an evil wizard has
trapped me inside this youtube video
click subscribe to help me escape